Hamas says Israel's refusal to withdraw
from a strategically important strip of
land in southern Gaza is thoring an
agreement to end the war the Israeli
Prime Minister has again insisted that
Israeli forces will not leave the
Philadelphia Corridor that's a piece of
land in southern Gaza along the border
with Egypt Benjamin Netanyahu argued
that Israeli troops must remain in this
buffer zone to prevent weapons and
possibly Israeli hostages being SM
smuggled across the border so why is the
Philadelphia Corridor so contentious BBC
verifies Merlin Thomas
explains Israel has been Paving a road
in Gaza in an area where their continued
presence is a major sticking point in
ceasefire negotiations construction is
happening here on this strip of land
called by its military code name the
Philadelphia Corridor it's strategically
important because this Corridor is
gaza's only land border with Egypt the
rest of Gaza borders Israel the
Philadelphia Corridor is about 12.6 km
long at BBC verifi we've been analyzing
satellite imagery mapping the paving of
a road along this Corridor have a look
at this from August the 24th around the
time we believe the recent Paving began
2 days later you can see this dark road
slowly extending South along the
Philadelphia Corridor now fast forward
to the 1st of September and you can
clearly see how far the paving has
advanced and this is what that looks
like on the ground we verified this
video posted on X at the end of August
that shows what looks like a newly paved
Road and you can just about make out a
border fence at the end of this video on
the right here over the last few months
the Israeli Army have cleared a large
areas near the corridor destroying
hundreds of buildings like this one and
from satellite imagery the destruction
is star this is from earlier this year
and you can see the Philadelphia
Corridor here and this
is from late last
month we asked the IDF about the
construction of the road and they didn't
respond to us prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said control of the
corridor is non-negotiable but Hamas has
rejected any Israeli presence in Gaza at
all experts like Dr Andreas C say the
paving of this road puts pressure on
ceasefire negotiations and it suggests
that Israel isn't going to withdraw
entirely from the Gaza Strip anytime
soon
as BBC verifies Merlin Thomas there